The next step in Question Answering is
Passage Retrieval and Answer Extraction.
Looking at our flow chart again,
we've now processed the question,
we've decided what queries to send
to the IR engine, and our job now is
to do document retrieval, find all
documents that have those query words.
Extract some documents and
pull passages out of those that might
have relevant answer fragments in them.
So we'll have three steps.
Retrieve documents from
the IR engine engine.
Segment the document into shorter units.
Often we just use paragraph breaks for
that, and then passage ranking.
So reranking the passages
depending on how well
they are likely to contain
an answer to the question.
So it's this third step, passage ranking,
that I want to talk about.
We've seen IR already, and
the segmentation is relatively simple.
We might use paragraphs or
similar kinds of things.
So the hard part really is,
I've got a whole lot of passages
that came back from breaking up
these documents into pieces.
Which ones contain the answer?
So the kind of features that get used for
passage ranking and again we might use
the rule-based classifier, we might use
supervised machine learning for this.
We might ask how many named entities of
the answer type occur in this passage?
If I'm asking about a person or
about a date,
how many people or
dates are in this passage?
If none, I've got a bad passage.
How many of the query words
occur in this passage.
So I know that they occurred
in the document, but
I want to know how many of them also
occurred in this particular passage.
And instead of words we might
look at entire N-grams.
We might look at how close these
query keywords occur to each other in
the passage.
If I've got two or
three keywords right next to each other,
I'm probably on to something.
And related to that, I can take
the longest sequence of question words,
and ask how long that is.
That's another feature I can use.
And of course, the document that had
the passage, we already ranked that,
and the rank of that document
might itself be a useful feature.
So we can throw all these things together.
So once I've done this step, so now
we've got facts about the question, and
we've retrieved and
ranked a bunch of answer passages.
The last step is pulling the answer out
of the passages, so answer processing.
So the first thing to do here
in answer extraction is to run
a named-entity tagger on the passages.
So if we have an answer type we've
got to have a named-entity tagger
that detects that answer type.
So if we know we're looking for a city,
that's no help if we don't have a tagger
that can find cities in raw text.
So this could be again a full
named-entity tagger or
some simple regular expression or
some hybrid.
And then our job is to return
the string with the right type.
So for example if we have a person
question who is the prime minister
of India?
We're going to want to be able
to detect answers in passages so
that if I had this passage Manmohan Singh,
Prime Minister of India,
I want to know that's a person
likely to be the answer.
Similarly if I have a length question
then a passage that contains this
length is likely to be an answer.
So I'm going to want to be able to
pull out this length and this person.
Now the problem happens when a passage
contains multiple candidate answers of
the correct named entity type.
So here's a question,
who was Queen Victoria's second son?
And we know we're looking for a person.
And here's a lovely passage.
The Marie biscuit is named after Marie and
so on.
But this passage has a whole
lot of named entities in it.
It has a whole lot of people.
It has Czar Alexander II, then it has
Alfred and it has Queen Victoria and
it has Prince Albert.
So Alfred is in fact
the answer to the question.
Alfred is the second
son of Queen Victoria.
So deciding which of these named entities
is the correct answer, now we're in this
machine learning problem where we
need lots of features that will tell
us which of the named entities is likely
to be the correct answer to extract.
And we can use machine learning and
lots of rich features for
ranking these candidate answers.
So again,
a candidate is a good candidate if it has
a phrase that has the correct answer type.
So If I've got a good name
that's the right kind of named
entity that's a good sign.
I can write regular expressions.
I can measure the number
of question keywords.
I can look at the distance again.
So all these factors that we can use for
passages we can use for answers as well.
A good answer candidate is in apposition
to question terms that might be,
there's an appositive clause, it might
be followed by some kind of punctuation.
We might look again for
the longest sequence of question terms.
So all these same features can now be
used for ranking candidate answers.
So in IBM Watson,
the answer is actually scored by a whole
lot of rich knowledge sources,
more than 50 components.
And they use unstructured text,
they use semi-structured text,
they might use knowledge
from triple stores,
from these relation extractions
we talked about earlier.
And each of them might give a score to a
possible answer from their own knowledge.
So we might use geospatial knowledge,
so we know let's say from
a geospatial database that
California is southwest of Montana.
That might help us in
deciding if California is
a good answer to a question
involving southwest of Montana.
We can extract temporal relationships.
We can look at how reliable
the source passage is.
We can do full parses and
get logical forms and so on.
And we'll talk a little bit more later
about how all of these knowledge sources
might be used.
Once we've picked an answer,
we need to decide how good it is.
If we're just returning one
answer we can just use accuracy.
Does the answer match some gold labeled
correct answer for that question?
But often we return multiple answers as we
do in general and information retrieval.
In that case we use a metric
called mean reciprocal rank.
What we do is for each query we're gong
to return a ranked list of M candidate
answers and the score of that query
is 1/Rank of the first right answer.
So if M is five and we get five answers
and only the third one is the first one
that's correct,
the score of that query is one-third.
And now we take the mean of those
ranks all over our N queries.
And that's the mean reciprocal rank.
So that's the final step in
the standard IR-based algorithm for
factoid question answering.